# <a name="c2"></a> 2. Comments

The best practice involves beginning your code with a short summary, which can be one sentence.
You should balance between writing no comments at all and obvious comments for each line of code.
Comments should be accurately and clearly expressed, without repeating the name of the class, interface, or method.
Comments are not a solution to bad code. Instead, you should fix the code as soon as you notice an issue, or plan to fix it (with a TODO comment including a Jira number).
Comments should accurately reflect the design ideas and logic of the code, and then describe the code's business logic.
As a result, other programmers will be able to save time when trying to understand the code.
Imagine that you are writing the comments to help your future self understand the original ideas behind the code. 

### <a name="c2.1"></a> 2.1 General form of Kdoc 
 
KDoc is a combination of JavaDoc's block tags syntax (extended to support specific constructions of Kotlin) and Markdown's inline markup.
The basic format of KDoc is shown in the following example:

```kotlin
 /**
 * There are multiple lines of KDoc text,
 * Other ...
 */
fun method(arg: String) {
    // …
}
```

It is also shown in the following single-line form:

```kotlin
 /** Short form of KDoc. */
```
When the entire KDoc block can be stored in one line (and there is no KDoc mark @XXX), a single-line form can be used. For detailed instructions on how to use KDoc, refer to [Official Document](https://docs.oracle.com/en/Kotlin/Kotlinse/11/tools/KDoc.html).

### <a name="r2.1.1"></a> Rule 2.1.1: KDoc is used for each public, protected or internal code element

At a minimum, KDoc should be used for every public, protected, or internal decorated class, interface, enumeration, method, and member field (property). Other code blocks can also have KDocs if needed.
Instead of using comments before properties in class - use `@property` tag in a KDoc of a class.
All properties of the primary constructor should be also documented in a KDoc with a `@property` tag.

**Exceptions:**

1. For setters/getters of properties obvious comments are optional.
 (Note that simple `get/set` methods are generated by Kotlin under the hood). For example, getFoo can also be `return foo`.
   
2. It is optional to add comments for simple one-line methods like:
```kotlin
val isEmpty: Boolean
    get() = this.size == 0
```

or

```kotlin
fun isEmptyList(list: List<String>) = list.size == 0
```

3. You can skip KDocs for a method's override if the method is almost like the super class method.

### <a name="r2.1.2"></a>Rule 2.1.2: When the method has arguments, return value, can throw exceptions, etc., it must be described in the KDoc block: with @param, @return, @throws, etc.

**Valid examples**:

 ```kotlin
/** 
 * This is the short overview comment for the example interface.
 *     / * Add a blank line between the comment text and each KDoc tag underneath * /
 * @since 2019-01-01
 */
 protected abstract class Sample {
    /**
     * This is a long comment with whitespace that should be split in 
     * comments on multiple lines in case the line comment formatting is enabled.
     *     / * Add a blank line between the comment text and each KDoc tag underneath * /
     * @param fox A quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
     * @return battle between fox and dog 
     */
    protected abstract fun foo(Fox fox)
     /**
      * These possibilities include: Formatting of header comments
      *     / * Add a blank line between the comment text and each KDoc tag underneath * /
      * @return battle between fox and dog
      * @throws ProblemException if lazy dog wins
      */
    protected fun bar() throws ProblemException {
        // Some comments / * No need to add a blank line here * /   
        var aVar = ...

        // Some comments  / * Add a blank line before the comment * /   
        fun doSome()
    }
 }
 ```

### <a name="r2.1.3"></a>Rule 2.1.3: There is only one space between the Kdoc tag and content. Tags are arranged in the following order: @param, @return, and @throws

This is how Kdoc should look like and what it should contain:
- Functional and technical description, explaining the principles, intentions, contracts, API, etc.
- The function description and @tags (`implSpec`, `apiNote`, and `implNote`) require an empty line after them.
- `@implSpec`: A specification related to API implementation, and it should let the implementer decide whether to override it.
- `@apiNote`: Explain the API precautions, including whether to allow null and whether the method is thread safe, as well as the algorithm complexity, input and output range, exceptions, etc.
- `@implNote`: A note related to API implementation, which implementers should keep in mind.
- Then one empty line, followed by regular `@param`, `@return`, `@throws` and other comments.
- The conventional standard "block labels" are arranged in order: `@param`, `@return`, `@throws`.
- Empty descriptions in tag blocks are not permitted. It is better not to write Kdoc than to waste code line on empty space.
- There should be no empty lines between the method/class declaration and the end of Kdoc (`*/` symbols).
- (!) KDoc does not support the `@deprecated` tag. Instead, use the `@Deprecated` annotation.
 
If a tag block cannot be described in one line, you should indent the content of the new line by `4 spaces` from the `@` position to achieve alignment (`@` counts as one + three spaces).
 
**Exception:** When the descriptive text in a tag block is too long to wrap, the alignment can be indented with the descriptive text in the previous line. The descriptive text of multiple tags does not need to be aligned.
See [3.8 Horizontal space](#c3.8).

In Kotlin compared to Java you are able to put several classes inside one file so each class should have a Kdoc formatted comment (this is also stated in rule 2.1).
This comment should contain @since tag. The good style is to write the version of the application when functionality was released. It should be written after a `@since` tag.

**Examples:**

```kotlin
/**
 * Description of functionality
 *
 * @since 1.6
 */
```

Other KDoc tags (such as @param type parameters and @see.) can be added as follow:
```kotlin
/**
 * Description of functionality
 *
 * @apiNote: Important information about API
 *
 * @since 1.6
 */
```
### <a name="c2.2"></a> 2.2 Comments to the file header
### <a name="r2.2.1"></a> Rule 2.2.1: Comments on the file header must include copyright information, without the creation date and author's name (use VCS for history management instead). The content inside files that contain multiple or no classes should also be described.

Comments on the file header should be stored before the package name and imports. If you need to add more content to the comment, you can subsequently add it in the same format.

The following examples for Huawei describe the format of the **copyright license**: \
Chinese version: `版权所有 (c) 华为技术有限公司 2012-2020` \
English version: `Copyright (c) Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. 2012-2020. All rights reserved.`

Regarding the **release notes**, see examples below:

- `2012-2020` can be modified according to your actual situation. `2012` and `2020` are the years the file was first created and last modified, respectively.
These two years can be the same (for example, `2020–2020`). When the file is substantially changed (for example, through feature extensions and major refactorings), the subsequent years must be updated.

- The **copyright statement** can use your company's subsidiaries. For example: \
Chinese version: `版权所有 (c) 海思半导体 2012-2020` \
English version: `Copyright (c) Hisilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. 2012-2020. All rights reserved.` 

- The copyright information should not be written in KDoc style or use single-line comments. It must start from the beginning of the file.
The following example is a copyright statement for Huawei, without other functional comments:

```kotlin
/*
 * Copyright (c) Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. 2012-2020. All rights reserved.
 */
```

The following factors should be considered when writing the file header or comments for top-level classes:
- File header comments must start from the top of the file. If it is a top-level file comment, there should be a blank line after the last Kdoc `*/` symbol. If it is a comment for a top-level class, class declaration should start immediately without using a newline.
- Maintain a unified format. The specific format can be formulated by the project (for example, in opensource) and you need to follow it.
- A top-level file-Kdoc must include a copyright and functional description, especially if there is more than one top-level class.
- Do not include empty comment blocks. As described in the preceding example, if there is no content after the option `@apiNote`, the entire tag block should be deleted.
- The industry does not include historical information in comments. The corresponding history can be found in VCS (git, svn, etc.). As such, it is not recommended to include historical data in the comments of the Kotlin source code.


### <a name="c2.3"></a> 2.3 Comments on the function header
### <a name="r2.3.1"></a> Rule 2.3.1: Do not use or make unnecessary and useless comments.
Comments on the function header are placed above function declarations or definitions. A newline should not exist between a function declaration and its Kdoc. Use the preceding [KDoc](#c2.1) style rules.

In Chapter 1 of the current code style, we stated that the function name should self-comment its functionality as much as possible. Therefore, in the Kdoc, try to mention things that are not stored in the function name.
Avoid unnecessary comments on dummy coding.

The content of the function header comment is optional, but not limited to function description, return value, performance constraints, usage, memory conventions, algorithm implementation, reentrant requirements, etc.
The module's external interface declaration and its comments should clearly convey important and useful information.

### <a name="c2.4"></a> 2.4 Code comments
### <a name="r2.4.1"></a> Rule 2.4.1: Add a blank line between the body of the comment and Kdoc tag-blocks. There must be one space between the comment's character and content. There must be a newline between a Kdoc and the preceding code.

- There must be one space between the comment character and the content of the comment; there must be a newline between a Kdoc and the previous code above.
An empty line should not exist between a Kdoc and the code it is describing. You do not need to add a blank line before the first comment in a particular name space (code block) (for example, between the function declaration and first comment in a function body).

**Valid Examples:**
```kotlin
/** 
 * This is the short overview comment for the example interface.
 * 
 * @since 1.6
 */
 public interface Example {
    // Some comments  /* Since it is the first member definition in this code block, there is no need to add a blank line here */
    val aField: String = ...
                     /* Add a blank line above the comment */
    // Some comments
    val bField: String = ...
                      /* Add a blank line above the comment */
    /**
     * This is a long comment with whitespace that should be split in 
     * multiple line comments in case the line comment formatting is enabled.
     *                /* blank line between description and Kdoc tag */
     * @param fox A quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
     * @return the rounds of battle of fox and dog 
     */
    fun foo(Fox fox)
                      /* Add a blank line above the comment */
     /**
      * These possibilities include: Formatting of header comments
      * 
      * @return the rounds of battle of fox and dog
      * @throws ProblemException if lazy dog wins
      */
    fun bar() throws ProblemException {
        // Some comments  /* Since it is the first member definition in this range, there is no need to add a blank line here */
        var aVar = ...

        // Some comments  /* Add a blank line above the comment */            
        fun doSome()
    }
 }
```

- Leave one single space between the comment on the right side of the code and the code. 
Conditional comments in the `if-else-if` scenario: To help other programmers understand the code, put the comments inside the `else-if` branch or in the conditional block, but not before the `else-if`.
When the if-block is used with curly braces, the comment should be placed on the next line after opening the curly braces.
Compared to Java, the `if` statement in Kotlin statements returns a value. For this reason, a comment block can describe a whole `if-statement`.

**Valid examples:**

```kotlin
val foo = 100  // right-side comment
val bar = 200  /* right-side comment */

// general comment for the value and whole if-else condition
val someVal = if (nr % 15 == 0) {
    // when nr is a multiple of both 3 and 5
    println("fizzbuzz")
} else if (nr % 3 == 0) {
    // when nr is a multiple of 3, but not 5
    // We print "fizz", only.
    println("fizz")
} else if (nr % 5 == 0) {
    // when nr is a multiple of 5, but not 3
    // we print "buzz" only.
    println("buzz")
} else {
    // otherwise, we print the number.
    println(x)
}
```

- Start all comments (including KDoc) with a space after the first symbol (`//`, `/*`, `/**` and `*`)

**Valid example:**
```kotlin
val x = 0  // this is a comment
```

### <a name="r2.4.2"></a>Rule 2.4.2: Do not comment unused code blocks (including imports). Delete these code blocks immediately.

Code is not used to store history. git, svn, or other VCS tools should be used for this purpose.
Unused imports increase the coupling of the code and are not conducive to maintenance. The commented out code cannot be properly maintained.
When you attempt to reuse the code, there is a high probability that you will introduce defects that are easily missed.
The correct approach is to delete the unnecessary code directly and immediately when it is not used.
If you need the code again, consider porting or rewriting it as changes could have occurred since you first commented on the code. 

### <a name="s2.4.3"></a>Recommendation 2.4.3: Code formally delivered to the client typically should not contain TODO/FIXME comments.

`TODO` comments are typically used to describe modification points that need to be improved and added. For example, refactoring FIXME comments are typically used to describe known defects and bugs that will be subsequently fixed and are not critical for an application.
They should all have a unified style to facilitate the unified text search processing.

**For example**:
```kotlin
// TODO(<author-name>): Jira-XXX - support new json format
// FIXME: Jira-XXX - fix NPE in this code block
```

In the version development stage, these annotations can be used to highlight the issues in code, but all of them should be fixed before a new product version is released.
